and we had another question from Lula is
your experience in your experience what
are common problems that eSports
athletes tend to have okay so you know
on stream I work a fair amount with
these sports athletes and there are a
ton of them to be short I think the one
that I've been thinking about the most
recently is actually so I think a lot of
so one huge problem is that eSports
doesn't have a physical limitation so
what happens is like if you look at like
a professional athlete lately and say
like an NFL player or like a base of
baseball player or soccer player or
something you know you can't you can't
practice football for like more than six
hours a day so I've also worked with
like NFL athletes and things like that
and their training regimen is like you
know somewhere between four and eight
hours a day because there's just
physical limitations of the human body
with eSports athletes there isn't that
limitation so another thing is I think
that eighteen year olds are just not
like cognitively prepared for this
degree of stress so a lot of times so
that's another big thing that that they
face is that you know you think about it
like you're in high school right and
you're streaming a lot or you're playing
a lot of overwatch and like that's
working great but then suddenly you're
in this like incident one of the things
that happens is when you're streaming
and before you get a pro contract you're
like one of the best alright so you're
kind of the best of the best and that's
what gets you the pro contract and then
once you enter the actual league then
suddenly your average or even below
average and so a lot of these it's a
huge psychological blow to be someone
who is the best and then suddenly be
lumped into people who are in like the
average or below average
and that psychological blow is really
hard to get over the funny thing is I
had a buddy who went to Harvard Law
School and I asked him after his first
year like how's law school going and he
said it's like it's actually kind of
sucks I asked him like well why does it
suck and he says one of the cruelest
things you can do is to take a bunch of
people who think that they're
exceptional and make them average and
when you do that to people they become
nasty and so I think eSports it's hard
to be you know it's cool like you think
about like Oh being an eSports athlete
like it's awesome and in a lot of ways
it is but it's really hard
psychologically the other thing that
happens is that there's a lot of stress
around job security because no one
really knows like you know um so I do
people know about you know okay so
kangaroo had the I had the option to go
pro after college and League of Legends
and at the same time I also had an offer
for better than school so I turned on
the contract to go pro and went to
medical school instead yeah so I think a
lot of people are concerned about job
security right so this is especially
true for the pro players that I work
with that are a little bit older like
once you hit 20 to 23 you know like
after you like if you get kicked from
your team then like what do you do can
you find a job like how does that work
so it you know it's an emerging field
there's a lot of stress there's a lot of
uncertainty about job security which can
be pretty stressful
what about self-imposed burnout who
possess him it seems that a lot of times
not just the teams that said the
schedule but the players themselves seem
to burn themselves out yes that was
actually a great question because I was
about to segue into that I think this is
also something that I see with streamers
right yeah this is not necesary pro
players but the other thing that's
happening is like people push themselves
and if you become a streamer there are
all kinds of like psychological weights
that get put on you because when you
when you become a streamer or even if
you become like a pro eSports
athlete you kind of start to become
someone that you're not and maintaining
being someone that you normally aren't
because before you go pro you really
loved to play the game and that's the
reason that you were playing the game
but let's say a year after you go pro
you know you're playing overwatch now
you've been playing overwatch for like
two and a half years and maybe you want
to stop playing over because if you
think about most gamers like what do you
guys do when you want to stop playing
the game you stop playing a game but in
this case you kind of can't your tracked
you're stuck and when I work with
streamers like that's also a big problem
is that they have invested so much and
building their stream that they feel
like they have to be this personality
and they can't actually be themselves
because if you start changing the
content of your stream your viewers may
leave yeah and you start to build up an
identity that you feel like you have to
maintain and that identity becomes like
a house of cards and then people just
they just burn out they just can't
handle it